chore: Ratelimit launch post (#1231)
unkeyed/unkey: apps/web/content/blog/introducing-ratelimiting.mdx

### Configure your ratelimiter

Firstly, you will want to configure the ratelimiter. Unkey uses namespaces to allow you to separate different parts of your application and have isolated limits for them. If the namespace doesn't exist, we will create it with the first request. For example, each of your tRPC routes could be a namespace. In this example, we use our `ai.generate` route.

```tsx
const unkey = new Ratelimit({
  rootKey: process.env.UNKEY_ROOT_KEY,
  namespace: "ai.generate",
  limit: 10,
  duration: "30s",
});
```

### Using the ratelimiter

With the ratelimiter now configured, we can use it in a route to decide whether to proceed with handling the request or reject it with a 429 response. You will need to pass an identifier for the request; this could be anything, but commonly, it is a userId or an IP address.

```tsx
async function handler(request) {
  const identifier = request.getUserId();

  const ratelimit = await unkey.limit(identifier);
  if (!ratelimit.success) {
    return new Response("try again later", { status: 429 });
  }
  // handle the request here
}
```

## Advanced usage

> Our ratelimiting offering offers additional options to provide more advanced configurations, including cost, async requests, and resource audit logging. We also provide configurable overrides in the dashboard so specific resources with an identifier can have limits without adding additional code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ratelimting offers additional options to provide more advanced configurations, including cost, async requests, and resource audit logging. We also provide configurable overrides in the dashboard so specific resources with an identifier can have limits without adding additional code.
```
